> **Rule A14-8-2 (required, implementation, automated)**
>
> Explicit specializations of function templates shall not be used.

## Rationale

Specializations of function templates do not participate in overload resolution. They
are only considered after their primary template has been selected during overload
resolution. This is highly dependent on the declaration order of overloads and
specializations and may be inconsistent with developer expectations.
A non-template function is always selected over a function template specialization if they
are otherwise an equally good match, which also may be confusing for developers.

Function templates cannot be partially specialized, which may lead to troublesome
implementations. If a partial specialization is required, then it is recommended to
write a single function template that delegates to a class template (which can be
partially specialized).

## Example

```cpp
// $Id: A14-8-2.cpp 312698 2018-03-21 13:17:36Z michal.szczepankiewicz $
#include <cstdint>
#include <memory>
#include <iostream>

template <typename T>
void F1(T t)
{
//compliant, (a)
std::cout << "(a)" << std::endl;
}

template <>
void F1<>(uint16_t* p)

{
//non-compliant
//(x), explicit specialization of
//(a), not (b), due to declaration
//order
std::cout << "(x)" << std::endl;
}

template <typename T>
void F1(T* p)

{
//compliant, (b), overloads (a)
std::cout << "(b)" << std::endl;
}

template <>
void F1<>(uint8_t* p)

{
//non-compliant
//(c), explicit specialization of (b)
std::cout << "(c)" << std::endl;
}

void F1(uint8_t* p)

{
//compliant
//(d), plain function, overloads with (a), (b)
//but not with (c)
std::cout << "(d)" << std::endl;
}

int main(void)
{
auto sp8 = std::make_unique<uint8_t>(3);
auto sp16 = std::make_unique<uint16_t>(3);

F1(sp8.get()); //calls (d), which might be
//confusing, but (c) is non-compliant

F1(sp16.get()); //calls (b), which might be
//confusing, but (b) is non-compliant

}

```

## See also

MISRA C++ 2008 [7]: 14-8-1: Overloaded function templates shall not be
explicitly specialized.

MISRA C++ 2008 [7]: 14-8-2: The viable function set for a function call should
either contain no function specializations, or only contain function specializations.

HIC++ v4.0 [9]: 14.2.2: Do not explicitly specialize a function template that is
overloaded with other templates.
C++ Core Guidelines [11]: T.144: Don’t specialize function templates.

Advantages of using exceptions
“The exception handling mechanism can provide an effective and clear means of
handling error conditions, particularly where a function needs to return both some
desired result together with an indication of success or failure. However, because of
its ability to transfer control back up the call tree, it can also lead to code that is
difficult to understand. Hence it is required that the mechanism is only used to
capture behavior that is in some sense undesirable, and which is not expected to be
seen in normal program execution.” [MISRA C++ 2008]
“The preferred mechanism for reporting errors in a C++ program is exceptions rather
than using error codes. A number of core language facilities, including dynamic_cast,
operator new(), and typeid, report failures by throwing exceptions. In addition, the
C++ standard library makes heavy use of exceptions to report several different kinds
of failures. Few C++ programs manage to avoid using some of these facilities.” [ISO
C++ Core Guidelines].
Consequently, C++ programs need to be prepared for exceptions to occur and need
to handle each appropriately.
Challenges of using exceptions
Issue:

Solution:

Correctness of the exception handling

Exception handling mechanism is implemented by
the compiler (by its library functions and machine
code generator) and defined by the C++ Language
Standard. Rule A1-2-1 requires that the compiler
(including its exception handling routines), when
used for safety-related software, meets appropriate
safety requirements.

Hidden control flow

ISO 26262-6 (Table \*) recommends “no hidden
data flow or control flow” for ASIL A software and
highly recommends it for ASIL B/C/D. Therefore, the
Rule A15-0-1 prohibits the usage of exceptions for
normal control flow of software - they are allowed
only for errors where a function failed to perform its
assigned task.

Guidelines for the use of the C++14 language in
critical and safety-related systems

Additional exit point from functions

ISO 26262-6 (Table \*) highly recommends “one
entry and one exit point in subprograms and
functions” for ASIL A software. Therefore, the
Rule A15-0-1 prohibits the usage of exceptions for
normal control flow of software - they are allowed
only for errors where a function failed to perform its
assigned task.

Code readability

If exceptions are used correctly, in particularly by
using checked and unchecked exception types, see
Rules: A15-0-4 and A15-0-5, the code is easier to
read and maintain than if using error codes. It avoids
nesting if/else error-checking statements.

## Exception

safety
and
program state consistency after exception is
thrown

The Rule A15-0-2 requires that functions provide at
least “basic exception safety” (Note: this C++ term
is not related to functional safety)

Impact on runtime performance

If a function does not throw an exception (i.e. error
conditions do not occur), then there could be a little
overhead due to exception handling mechanism
initialization. However, some compilers offer “zero
cost exception handling”, which means that there
is no performance overhead if the exception is not
thrown.

Impact on worst-case execution time

The
A15-0-7
rule
requires
that
the
exception handling mechanism provides real-time
implementation. Note that this is not the case for
e.g. GCC compiler that allocates dynamic memory
on throwing an exception. However, it is possible to
fix it simply by avoiding memory allocation.

Maturity of exceptions

Exceptions are a widespread concept in several
programming languages, not only in C++, but also
in e.g. Ada, Java, Modula-3, ML, OCaml, Python,
Ruby, C#, Lisp, Eiffel, and Modula-2.

Tool support

There are several tools that support exceptions well:
compilers (e.g. gcc, clang, visual studio), IDEs
(e.g. eclipse, clion, visual studio), static analysis
tools (e.g. QA C++, Coverity Prevent) and compiler
validation suites (e.g. SuperTest).

Appropriate usage of exceptions in
implementation

Exceptions need to be used properly in the code,
therefore this document specifies almost 40 precise
rules defining how to code using exceptions, in
particular defining the rules for checked/unchecked
exceptions.

Table 6.1: Challenges of exceptions usage

Checked and unchecked exceptions

Like MISRA introduces a concept of "underlying type", AUTOSAR C++14 Guidelines
introduces a concept of unchecked and checked exceptions. This is based on the
classification used in Java language, having as a goal an efficient, complete and
consistent way of specifying the exceptions. There are therefore two exclusive
categories of exceptions:
Checked Exceptions: Used to represent errors that are expected and
reasonable to recover from, so they are supposed to be documented by
functions using a dedicated tag (e.g. @throws) and have to be either handled or
documented (in the same way) by caller functions. Exceptions are marked as
Checked using a separate tag (e.g. @checkedException) that precedes an exception
class declaration.
Unchecked Exceptions: Used to represent errors that a program typically can
not recover from. However, unchecked exceptions can be documented by
functions, i.e in cases when all preconditions of thrown exception are defined
and known. It is context dependent where such an exception can be caught
(e.g. is it done before main function) and what is the proper handling (e.g. other
than program termination). However, it is not forced so that unchecked
exceptions are documented by caller functions (even if they are documented by
called functions). By default, all exceptions are unchecked (also from third-party
libraries used), unless their definition is preceded by the dedicated tag.
“Checked exceptions are a wonderful feature of the Java programming language.
Unlike return codes, they force the programmer to deal with exceptional conditions,
greatly enhancing reliability.” [Effective Java 2nd Edition [15]]
The following sections specify several specific rules defining the usage of exceptions,
in particular concerning the use of unchecked and checked exceptions.
