> **Rule A2-13-2 (required, implementation, automated)**
>
> String literals with different encoding prefixes shall not be concatenated.

## Rationale

Concatenation of wide and narrow string literals leads to undefined behavior.
“In translation phase 6 (2.2), adjacent string-literals are concatenated. If both stringliterals have the same encoding-prefix, the resulting concatenated string literal has
that encoding-prefix. If one string-literal has no encoding-prefix, it is treated as a
string-literal of the same encoding-prefix as the other operand. If a UTF-8 string literal
token is adjacent to a wide string literal token, the program is ill-formed. Any other
concatenations are conditionally-supported with implementation-defined behavior. [
Note: This concatenation is an interpretation, not a conversion. Because the
interpretation happens in translation phase 6 (after each character from a literal has
been translated into a value from the appropriate character set), a string-literal’s
initial rawness has no effect on the interpretation or well-formedness of the
concatenation. -end note ]” [C++14 Language Standard] [3]

## Example

```cpp
//% $Id: A2-13-2.cpp 305629 2018-01-29 13:29:25Z piotr.serwa $

char16_t nArray[] =
u"Hello"
u"World"; // Compliant, "u" stands for char16_t type

char32_t nArray2[] =
U"Hello"
U"World"; // Compliant, "U" stands for char32_t type

wchar_t wArray[] =
L"Hello"
L"World"; // Compliant, "L" stands for wchar_t type - violates A2-13-3
// rule.

wchar_t mixed1[] =
"Hello"
L"World"; // Compliant

char32_t mixed2[] =
"Hello"
U"World"; // Compliant

char16_t mixed3[] =
"Hello"
u"World"; // Compliant

// wchar_t mixed1[] = u"Hello" L"World"; // Non-compliant - compilation error

// char32_t mixed2[] = u"Hello" U"World"; // Non-compliant - compilation error

```

## See also

MISRA C++ 2008 [7]: required 2-13-5 Narrow and wide string literals shall not
be concatenated.
HIC++ v4.0 [9]: 2.5.1 Do not concatenate strings with different encoding prefixes
Rule A2-13-3 (required, architecture / design / implementation,automated) Type wchar_t shall not be used.

## Rationale

Width of wchar_t type is implementation-defined.
Types char16_t and char32_t should be used instead.

## Example

```cpp
//% $Id: A2-13-3.cpp 305629 2018-01-29 13:29:25Z piotr.serwa $
char16_t string1[] = u"ABC"; // Compliant
char32_t string2[] = U"DEF"; // Compliant
wchar_t string3[] = L"GHI";
// Non-compliant

```

## See also

none
Rule A2-13-4 (required, architecture / design / implementation,automated) String literals shall not be assigned to non-constant pointers.

## Rationale

Since C++0x, there was a change in subclause 2.13.5 for string literals. To prevent
from calling an inappropriate function that might modify its argument, the type of a
string literal was changed from “array of char” to “array of const char”.
Such a usage is deprecated by the Standard and reported by a compiler as a
warning. This rule is deliberately redundant, in case rules A1-1-1 and A1-4-3 are
disabled in a project.

## Example

```cpp
//% $Id: A2-13-4.cpp 307578 2018-02-14 14:46:20Z michal.szczepankiewicz $

int main(void)
{

//non-compliant
char nc2[] = "AUTOSAR"; //compliant with A2-13-4, non-compliant with A18 -1-1

char nc3[8] = "AUTOSAR"; //compliant with A2-13-4, non-compliant with A18 -1-1

nc1[3] = ’a’; // undefined behaviour

char* nc1 = "AUTOSAR";

//compliant
const char c2[] = "AUTOSAR"; //compliant with A2-13-4, non-compliant with A18-1-1

const char c3[8] = "AUTOSAR"; //compliant with A2-13-4, non-compliant with A18-1-1

//c1[3] = ’a’; //compilation error

const char* c1 = "AUTOSAR";

return 0;

}

```

## See also

JSF December 2005 [8]: AV Rule 151.1: A string literal shall not be modified.

Rule A3-1-1 (required, architecture / design / implementation,automated) It shall be possible to include any header file in multiple
translation units without violating the One Definition Rule.

## Rationale

A header file is a file that holds declarations used in more than one translation unit
and acts as an interface between separately compiled parts of a program. A header
file often contains classes, object declarations, enums, functions, inline functions,
templates, typedefs, type aliases and macros.
In particular, a header file is not supposed to contain or produce definitions of global
objects or functions that occupy storage, especially objects that are not declared
“extern” or definitions of functions that are not declared “inline”.

## Example

```cpp
//% $Id: A3-1-1.hpp 289436 2017-10-04 10:45:23Z michal.szczepankiewicz $
#include <cstdint>
void F1();
// Compliant

extern void F2(); // Compliant
void F3()
{
7 }
// Non-compliant
static inline void F4()
{
} // Compliant
template <typename T>
void F5(T)
{
} // Compliant
15 std::int32_t a;
16 extern std::int32_t b;
constexpr static std::int32_t c = 10; // Compliant
namespace ns
{
constexpr static std::int32_t d = 100; // Compliant
21 const static std::int32_t e = 50;
std::int32_t f;
22 static
void F6() noexcept;
23 static
}

// Non-compliant
// Compliant

// Compliant
// Non-compliant
// Non-compliant

```

## See also

MISRA C++ 2008 [7]: Rule 3-1-1 It shall be possible to include any header file
in multiple translation units without violating the One Definition Rule.
Rule A3-1-2 (required, architecture / design / implementation,automated) Header files, that are defined locally in the project, shall
have a file name extension of one of: ".h", ".hpp" or ".hxx".

## Rationale

This is consistent with developer expectations to provide header files with one of the
standard file name extensions.

## Example

```cpp
//% $Id: A3-1-2.cpp 266557 2017-02-07 13:08:19Z piotr.tanski $
//#include <h3.h>
// Compliant
//#include <h1.hpp> // Compliant
//#include <h2.hxx> // Compliant
//#include <h4.cpp> // Non-compliant
//#include <h5.c>
// Non-compliant
//#include <h6.hdr> // Non-compliant
//#include <h7.inc> // Non-compliant

```

## See also

JSF December 2005 [8]: 4.9.2 AV Rule 53 Header files will always have a file
name extension of ".h".

Rule A3-1-3 (advisory, architecture / design / implementation,automated) Implementation files, that are defined locally in the project,
should have a file name extension of ".cpp".

## Rationale

This is consistent with developer expectations to provide C++ implementation files
with the standard file name extension.
Note that compilers support various file name extensions for C++ implementation files.

```

## See also
JSF December 2005 [8]: 4.9.2 AV Rule 54 Implementation files will always have
a file name extension of ".cpp".

```
