> **Rule A3-3-2 (required, implementation, automated)**
>
> Static and thread-local objects shall be constant-initialized.

## Rationale

In general, using non-const global and static variables obscures the true dependencies
of an API, since they can be accessed from any place of the source code. It therefore
makes the code more difficult to maintain, less readable, and significantly less testable.
A particular problem is that the order in which constructors and initializers for static
variables are called is only partially specified by the C++ Language Standard and can
even change from build to build. This can cause issues that are difficult to find or debug.

The compiler performs constant-initialization, if
the object is initialized by a constexpr constructor with only constant expression
as arguments; or
the object is not initialized by a constructor call, but is value-initialized (T
object{};); or
the object is not initialized by a constructor call, but is initialized by an initializer
consisting only of constant expressions.
Constant initialization is guaranteed to occur before any other initialization of static or
thread-local objects and may happen at compile time. Thus it is guaranteed that
problematic dependencies between the initializers of constant-initialized static or
thread-local objects cannot occur.
Note that declaring a static variable as constexpr (static is implied in this case, but
may be added to the declaration), enforces constant initialization by the compiler.
Note that the rule applies to:
global variables (i.e.
extern) static variables
static class member variables
static function-scope variables

## Example

```cpp
// $Id: A3-3-2.cpp 305690 2018-01-29 14:35:00Z jan.babst $
#include <cstdint>
#include <limits>
#include <string>
class A
{
public:
static std::uint8_t instanceId;
static float const pi;
static std::string const separator;

A() {}
// Implementation...

};
std::uint8_t A::instanceId = 0;// Compliant - constant initialization
float const A::pi = 3.14159265359; // Compliant - constant initialization
std::string const A::separator =
"=========="; // Non-compliant - string c’tor is not constexpr

class C
{
public:
constexpr C() = default;
};

namespace
{
constexpr std::int32_t maxInt32 =
std::numeric_limits<std::int32_t>::max(); // Compliant - constexpr variable

A instance{};
// Compliant - constant (value) initialization
constexpr C c{}; // Compliant - constexpr c’tor call
} // namespace

void Fn() noexcept
{
static A a{}; // Non-compliant - A’s default c’tor is not constexpr
static std::int32_t counter{0};
// Compliant

}

static std::string border(5, ’*’);

// Non-compliant - not a constexpr c’tor

class D
{
public:
D() = default;
D(D const&) = default;
D(D&&) = default;
D& operator=(D const&) = default;
D& operator=(D&&) = default;
~D() = default;

private:

static D* instance;

};

D* D::instance = nullptr; // Compliant - initialization by constant expression

```

## See also

cppreference.com [16]: Constant initialization.
HIC++ v4.0 [9]: 3.3.1: Do not use variables with static storage duration.
JSF December 2005 [8]: AV Rule 214: Assuming that non-local static objects,
in separate translation units, are initialized in a special order shall not be done.
SEI CERT C++ Coding Standard [10]: DCL56-CPP: Avoid cycles during
initialization of static objects.
C++ Core Guidelines [11]: I.22: Avoid complex initialization of global objects.
Google C++ Style Guide [12]: Static and Global Variables.
