> **Rule M18-2-1 (required, implementation, automated)**
>
> The macro offsetof shall not be used.
> See MISRA C++ 2008 [7]

The dynamic memory management provides flexible mechanism of allocating and
deallocating blocks of memory during run-time phase of the program. The application
is allowed to acquire as much memory as it needs in its current state, and return it
once the memory is not used.

Moreover, this is a convenient way of extending lifetime of objects outside the
functions where the objects were created. In other words, a function can create
objects on dynamic memory and then exit and the objects that were created in the
dynamic memory are preserved and can be used subsequently by other functions.
The dynamic memory management uses the Operating System routines to allocate
and deallocate memory, what introduces several issues. Therefore, the AUTOSAR
C++14 Coding Guidelines defines specific rules for appropriate usage and
implementation of dynamic memory management.
Challenges arising due to dynamic memory usage
Issue:

Solution:

Memory leaks

RAII design pattern usage is highly recommended
for managing resource and memory acquisition and
release (A18-5-2). It is prohibited to make calls
to new and delete operators explicitly, to force
programmers to assign each allocated memory
block to manager object which deallocates the
memory automatically on leaving its scope. Also,
the form of delete operator used for memory
deallocation needs to match the form of new
operator used for memory allocation (A18-5-3).

Memory fragmentation

Memory allocator used in the project needs to
guarantee that no memory fragmentation occurs
(A18-5-5).

Invalid memory access

C-style functions malloc/calloc/realloc must not be
used in the project, so memory block can not be
accessed as it would be of another type. Memory
allocator used in the project needs to guarantee that
objects do not overlap in the physical storage (A185-5).

Erroneous memory allocations

The application program needs to define the
maximum amount of dynamic memory it needs,
so running out of memory must not occur during
faultless execution. The memory would be preallocated before run-time phase of the program
(A18-5-5).

Not deterministic execution time of memory
allocation and deallocation

Memory allocator used in the project needs to
guarantee that memory allocation and deallocation
are executed within defined time constraints that
are appropriate for the response time constraints
defined for the real-time system and its programs
(A18-5-7).

Table 6.2: Challenged of dynamic memory usage

Ownership and smart pointers
Memory allocated dynamically requires strict control of objects or functions that are
responsible for deallocating it when it is no longer needed. Such lifetime manipulation
and maintenance of managing dynamically allocated memory is called Ownership.
Ownership has the following features:
if it is exclusive, then it is possible to transfer it from one scope to another.
if it is shared, then memory deletion is typically responsibility of the last owner
that releases that ownership.
if it is temporary, then a non-owning/weak reference has to be converted to
shared ownership before accessing the object.
Since C++11, management of Ownership is done by smart pointer types. Smart
pointers are allocated on stack, which guarantees destructor execution and possible
object deallocation (if that is the last or sole owner) at the end of the scope. Pointerlike behavior is done by overloading operator-> and operator\* methods.
The following standard smart pointer classes are available since C++11:
std::unique_ptr wraps a pointer to an object in an exclusive way. Such std:: unique_ptr

object guarantees that only one pointer to the underlying object exists at a time, as
std::unique_ptr is not copyable. It is movable and such an operation represents
ownership transfer. When the std::unique_ptr instance is goes out of scope, the
underlying pointer is deleted and memory is deallocated.
std::shared_ptr wraps a pointer to an object in a shared way. Multiple std:: shared_ptr

are capable to point at the same object, as std::shared_ptr is copyable and it contains
a reference counting mechanism. When the last std::shared_ptr instance goes out of
scope (and the reference counter drops to 0), the underlying pointer is deleted and
memory is deallocated.
std::weak_ptr wraps a pointer to an object, but it has to be converted to a std
::shared_ptr in order to access the referenced object. The main purpose of the
std::weak_ptr is to break potential circular references among multiple std ::shared_ptr

objects, which would prevent reference counting from dropping to 0 and removing
the underlying pointer. If only std::weak_ptr objects exist at a time, then conversion to
std::shared_ptr will return an empty std::shared_ptr.

The main purpose of smart pointers is prevent from possible memory leaks to
provide limited garbage-collection feature:
with almost no overhead over raw pointers for std::unique_ptr, unless userspecified deleter is used.
with possibility of sharing ownership among multiple std::shared_ptr objects.
However, this solution bases purely on the reference-counting and smart pointers
destructors calling and it does not involve independent process that periodically
cleans up memory that is no longer referenced.

Usage of smart pointers makes Ownership matters unambiguous and selfdocumenting. It also facilitates memory management issues and eliminates multiple
error types that can be made by developers.
There are also other types of memory managing objects that follow RAII design
pattern, e.g. std::string and std::vector.
